As explained in previous sections, 2 different types of anomalies are introduced in the synthetic data. Each of the 2 banks/clients generates a dataset consisting of 25k samples with only one type of anomaly present in the each client's respective data. A summary of the datasets used for the experiments can be seen in Table 1. Once the synthetic datasets are generated, they undergo data pre-processing and feature engineering steps, where the relevant features are extracted from the transaction information and scaled for better model performance. The final ML model is trained on 4 features - i) Distance between Expected and IP location of Debtor, ii) Distance between Expected and IP location of Creditor, iii) Age of Account and iv) Amount of transaction. The distribution of each of these features are visualized in Figure 1 (for Bank 1) and  Figure 2 (for Bank 2). 

In non-anomalous data, the typical distance between the physical and IP location is small and this has been ensured by selecting an IP address that is within a small radius of the physical location. For Location-Based anomalies the latitude and longitude values for the IP address is set such that it is outside the standard radius set for non-anomalous transactions. The geo-locations are selected from a uniform distribution. In Figure \ref{fig:data_dist_1}, it can be observed that the range of values for the distance features(1.a and 1.b) are very different for non-anomalous vs anomalous data. However, the distributions for amount and age (1.c and 1.d) remain similar in terms of range and pattern, as expected.  This confirms that Bank 1 does not detect/label anomalies based on amount and account.

Similarly, for Bank 2's data in Figure \ref{fig:data_dist_2}, the distributions for the distance features (2.a and 2.b) are in the same range for both classes of samples. A significant shift in the Account Age range (2.c) is observed between non-anomalous vs anomalous distributions, indicating the low age of the anomalous samples of data. It may be noted that there is an overlap in the range of Transaction Amount (2.d) for the two classes. This is intentional, to create a layer of complexity for the ML model. A clear separation in anomalous vs non-anomalous amounts may lead the model to learn only on this feature instead of a combination of age and amount. The overlap ensures that the model learns to detect an anomaly for a high amount transaction \textit{only} when the age of the account is low.

The distributions confirm the expected behavior of the synthetic data. In order to maintain realistic trends in data, 10\% noise is added to the data i.e. 10\% of anomalous points have been labeled as non-anomalous. This can be visible as the small blue(non-anomalous) peaks in 1.a, 1.b, 2.c and 2.d overlapping the orange(anomalous) peaks.